RINETD
We will start with a relatively basic
port forwarding example,
based on the following scenario.
During an assessment, we gained root
access to an Internet-connected
Linux web server.
From there, we found and compromised a
Linux client on an internal network,
gaining access to ssh credentials.
In this fairly-common scenario, our first
target, the Linux web server,
has Internet connectivity, but the second
machine, the Linux client, does not.
We were only able to access this client
by pivoting through the
Internet-connected server.
To pivot again, this time from the Linux
client,
and begin assessing other machines on the
internal network,
we must be able to transfer tools and
data to and from our attack machine
as needed.
Since this client can not reach the
Internet directly,
we must use the compromised Linux web
server as a go-between,
moving data twice and creating a very
tedious data-transfer process.
We can use port forwarding techniques
to ease this process.
To recreate this scenario, our
Internet-connected Kali Linux virtual
machine will stand in as the compromised
Linux web server and our dedicated
Debian Linux box as the internal,
Internet-disconnected Linux client.
Our Kali machine can access the Internet,
and the client can not.
We can confirm this from our Kali machine
by pinging google.com,
and connecting to its IP with netcat on
port 80
We can see that our Kali attack machine
has Internet access.
Next, we SSH to the compromised Linux
client and test Internet connectivity
from there, again with Netcat.
Note that we are again connecting to the
IP address,
since an Internet-disconnected internal
network will likely not have a working
external DNS.
Our Internet connection test failed,
proving that our Linux client does not
have internet access.
If we want to transfer files to or from
an Internet-connected host in this
scenario, we must first transfer them to
the Linux web server.
and then transfer them again to our
intended destination.
Instead, we will use a port forwarding
tool called rinetd
to redirect traffic to our Kali Linux
server.
This tool is easy to configure,
and because it is available in the Kali
Linux repositories,
it is easily installed with apt.
The forwarding rules in the rinetd
configuration file
requires four parameters,
including bindaddress and bindport,
which specify the listening IP address
and port,
and connectaddress and connectport,
which specify the destination address
and port.
For example, we can use rinetd to
redirect any traffic received by
the Kali web server on port 80 to the
google.com IP address.
To do this, we edit the rinetd
configuration file,
and add the following forwarding rule:
This rule will cause all traffic received
on port 80 of our Kali Linux server,
listening on all interfaces regardless of destination address,
to be redirected to port 80,
on 216.58.207.142.
This is exactly what we want.
First we need to restart the rinetd
service with the service command,
and then use the ss utility
to confirm that the service is listening
on TCP port 80.
Good! The port is listening.
Let’s verify that it is working by
connecting to port 80 on our Kali Linux
virtual machine.
The connection to our Linux server was
successful,
and as shown by the Set-Cookie field,
our get request was successfully
forwarded to Google’s web server.
This technique can be used to connect from
our Internet-disconnected Linux client
to any Internet-connected host
host by changing the connectaddress and
connectport fields
in the web server’s rinetd configuration
file.